EXERCISE 4: IMPLEMENT KEY MANAGEMENT SERVICES IN AWS
Key management involves generating, using, protecting, storing, backing up, and deleting encryption keys.
Security professionals follow different data security methods to protect data stored on the cloud. Generally, data are encrypted to protect its confidentiality and integrity. Securing the encryption keys from unauthorized access is a major concern for security professionals. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Key Management Service (KMS) provides a key management service for secured storing and rotating of encryption keys with strict access control. It is important for a security professional to understand AWS KMS and learn how to create and manage cryptographic keys and as well as implement the keys in AWS services and applications.

OBJECTIVE
In this lab, you will learn to do the following:
- Create KMS Master Key
- Encrypt AWS S3 using AWS KMS Master Key
- Encrypt EBS Volume using AWS KMS Mater Key
- Encrypt Amazon Redshift Using KMS Master Key

OVERVIEW OF KEY MANAGEMENT
Cloud Key management is linked with Cloud Identity and Access Management and Cloud Audit Logs for controlling and monitoring access to individual keys and their use.

Note: You need to execute Exercise 3 of this module before executing this lab as the user and group created in the previous lab are used in this lab.
Note: Ensure that Admin Machine-1 and PfSense Firewall virtual machines are running.
1. In the Admin Machine-1 virtual machine, double-click on the Google Chrome icon on the Desktop to open the browser.
2. The Google Chrome browser opens. Go to the address bar, type https://aws.amazon.com/, and press Enter.
3. The AWS Web Services - Cloud Computing Services page appears. Click on AWS Management Console from the My Account drop-down menu as shown in the screenshot below. 
4. The AWS Web Services Sign-in page appears. Type the AWS administrator account ID, and click on Next.
5. In the Password field, type the password, and click on Sign-in.
6. Type KMS in the Search field, and then select Key Management Service from the search result. 
7. The KMS Console page appears. Click on Customer managed keys in the left pane. 
8. The Customer managed keys section appears. Click on Create key. 
9. By default, the Symmetric key is selected. Click on Next to continue.
10. Type CCT_User_MasterKey in the Alias field, which will serve as the name of your Master Key. The Description is optional; however, entering a brief description of what the key does is recommended. Under the Tags section, you can Add Tags that can help identify the Master Key using Tag key and Tag value. Click on Next. 
11. To allow users to perform encryption and decryption, we must assign key permissions for the users. In this example, we will permit Alice to use the Master Key and click Next. 
12. At this step, there is an option to Add another AWS account. However, we have already added the user Alice. Therefore, click on Next to continue. 
13. You can Review and edit key policy, which is in JSON format. Click on Finish to create the Master Key. 
14. The key has been created successfully, and it now appears in the Customer managed keys section. 
15. After creating the key, you can go to Customer managed keys and click on the key (here, it is CCT_User_Masterkey) in the Alias column to view the Master Key properties. 
16. In the AWS Management Console, click on Services from the menu bar and enter S3 in the search field. Click on S3 Scalablein the Cloud from the search results. 
17. The S3 buckets page appears. Click on Create bucket. 
18. The Create bucket pop-up appears. Under General configuration, type the name of the bucket in the Bucket name field (here, the bucket name is testing-group), and retain the other default settings. 
19. Retain default settings for all other sections, scroll down and click on Create bucket. 
20. The S3 buckets page appears.
21. Click on the bucket for which you want to configure the encryption settings (here, click on testing-group). 
22. The testing-group bucket page appears. Click on Properties, and then click on the Edit button under the Bucket Versioning section. 
23. Click on the Enable radio button under Bucket Versioning to enable it, and then scroll down and select Save changes. 
24. In the testing-group bucket page scroll down to Server access logging and click on Edit. 
25. Click on the Enable radio button under Server access logging Similarly and click on Browse S3 to select the target bucket. 
26. In the Choose destination to upload resources window select testing-group s3 bucket and click on Choose path. 
27. The testing-group appears in Target bucket, scroll down and click on Save changes. 
28. Next, in the testing-group bucket page, scroll down and click on Edit button under Default encryption. 
29. In the Edit default encryption window select Enable radio button and choose the AWS Key Management Service key (SSE-KMS) radio button from the list of encryption key types, and select AWS managed key aws/s3 under AWS KMS key section, which will use the default AWS Managed Keys. Click on Save changes. 
30. We have created the testing-group bucket for encrypting data. The user can push data into this bucket.
31. The user can also use a customer managed key for this bucket. Let us see how to use the customer managed key for the testing-group bucket to encrypt the data.
32. Go to Key Management Services (KMS), and select Customer managed keys. 
33. Under the Customer managed keys pane, click on CCT_User_MasterKey Alias. 
34. Under the CCT_user_MasterKey’s General configuration, select the Amazon Resource Names (ARN) key which uniquely identify AWS resourceskey under the ARN field and copy it. 
35. Open Notepad and paste the copied link.
36. Switch to the browser. Navigate to S3 Management Console and select testing-group under Bucket name. 
37. The testing-group pane opens. Select the Properties tab. 
38. Scroll down and click on Edit button under Default encryption. 
39. Switch to Notepad and copy the key that we had pasted in Step 35.
40. Again, switch back to the Default Encryption and select the Enter AWS KMS key ARN radio button and paste the key that was copied in Step 35 in the AWS KMS key ARN. Click on Save changes. 
41. In this way, with the help of Customer Managed Keys, the user can encrypt and protectdata.
42. Amazon EBS supports KMS. Its encryption provides security to data at rest by encrypting data volumes, boot volumes, and snapshots using Amazon-managed keys or keys created and managed using the AWS KMS.
43. Click on Services from the menu bar, and search for EC2. From the search results, click on EC2 Virtual Servers in the Cloud as shown in the screenshot below. 
44. Once the EC2 Service Console page opens, click on Volumes in the left pane under Elastic Block Store. 
45. To create a new volume, click on Create Volume. 
46. In the Create Volume page, select the Volume Type and specify the size of the volume in the Size (GiB) field. If you need the disk to restore existing data, you can select a Snapshot ID, in which you have saved another volume’s Snapshot. Check Encryption: Encrypt this volume. 
47. In the Master Key field, select the Customer Managed Key we created: CCT_User_MasterKey. After entering the required details, scroll down and click on Create Volume. 
48. The Volume created successfully dialog message will appear once the disk is created. Click on Close. 
49. In this way, the KMS Master Key is used to encrypt the EBS volume.
50. As we have encrypted EBS Volume, we will now encrypt Amazon Redshift using KMS Master Key.
51. Go to main search bar and search for redshift and select Amazon Redshift. 
52. Close the welcome popup that appears. Click on Create cluster in the Redshift dashboard. 
53. The Cluster configuration page appears. (Here, we are selecting the Production option to create a new Redshift cluster. If you are in free trial, select a Free trial option, and proceed. Please note that if you select the Production option, your account will be charged as per the AWS pricing model so make sure that you delete the Redshift cluster service after performing the lab.) Scroll down the page to view the detailed configuration of the cluster. 
54. Type the password Dbuser123 in the Admin user password field. Keep the remaining default settings as it is and click on Create cluster.
55. The redshift-cluster-1 is now being created. Observe, that it is showed under the Status column as Modifying and Creating. Wait until the cluster is fully created. 
56. Once the cluster is fully created, you can see that the cluster’s Status is Available. 
57. Click on the newly created cluster link (here, the cluster link is redshift-cluster-1) to modify the cluster setting.
58. The newly created cluster redshift-cluster-1 page appears. Click on Edit button. 
59. The Edit cluster redshift-cluster-1 page appears, scroll down to Database configurations. Click on Open tab. 
60. You will be redirected to Properties section. In the Properties section click on Edit drop down and select Edit encryption. In Edit encryption window, choose the Use AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) radio button, then choose Use key from current account, and finally choose CCT_User_Masterkey in KMS key ID drop-down. Click Save changes. 
 See the cluster’s status in Status column. It shows Modifying and Resizing. 
62. On the AWS Web Console, click on Services and search for KMS. Select Key Management Service. 
63. Once the KMS Console page appears, click on Customer managed keys (here CCT_User_MasterKey). 
64. Scroll down until the Key users section. Click on Add. 
65. Use the search box to filter the IAM users. Type Alice as shown in the screenshot below and check Alice. We will add the IAM User Alice so that the user can access the Master Key. Click on Add. 
66. After you have added the user, it will appear as added in the Key users section. 
67. Thus, a security professional can implement AWS KMS.
68. Now ensure that you delete the created cluster. To do this, type redshift in the main search bar and select Amazon Redshift.
69. Select the Clusters icon from AWS icon bar on the left. Select the created cluster from the list and click Actions from the drop-down menu. Click Delete.Note: If the status of the cluster is still Modifying and Resizing wait for it to change to Available, then delete the Cluster. 
70. The Delete redshift-cluster-1 popup appears. Uncheck the Create Final Snapshot and click Delete cluster to delete the created cluster. 
71. Log out from the AWS platform and close all open windows.


------------------------------
EXERCISE 5: SECURE AMAZON WEB SERVICES STORAGE

S3 buckets are used by customers and end-users to store text documents, PDFs, videos, images, etc.
In the cloud, data is stored on Internet-connected servers in data centres. It is important that security professionals understand and implement the datasecurity features for data encryption and access management tools provided by service providers to secure the data stored in the data centres.

OBJECTIVE
This lab will demonstrate how to restrict access to S3 resources by creating bucket policies, Access Control Lists (ACLs), and IAM policies to provide access to selected entities.
In this lab, you will learn to do the following:
- Assign Permissions to Amazon S3 Using ACL
- Assign Permissions to Amazon S3 Using Bucket Policy

OVERVIEW OF AWS 
Amazon S3 allows upload and retrieval data at any time and from anywhere on the Internet. It stores data as objects (text file/photo/video) within buckets. In the default state, all the Amazon S3 buckets are accessed by authorized users. Restrict access to S3 resources by combining bucket policies, ACLs and IAM polices to give access to the right entities.

Note: Before starting this lab, you should create an AWS account using the following: https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup. Once the registration is completed, perform the following tasks.
Note: Ensure that Admin Machine-1 and PfSense Firewall virtual machines are running.
1. In the Admin Machine-1 virtual machine, double-click on the Google Chrome icon on the Desktop to open the browser.
2. The Google Chrome browser opens. Go to the address bar, type https://aws.amazon.com/, and press Enter.
Note: If you are already logged in, skip the login steps.
3. The AWS Web Services - Cloud Computing Services page appears. Click on AWS Management Console from the My Account drop-down menu as shown in the screenshot below.
4. The AWS Web Services Sign-in page appears. Type the AWS administrator account ID, and click on Next.
Note: In the next window, type the characters seen in the image and click on submit. 
5. In the Password field, type the password, and click on Sign-in.
6. Click on Services. In the search field, type S3, and then click on S3 Scalablein the Cloud from the search results. 
7. The S3 buckets page appears. Click on Create bucket. 
8. The Create bucket pop-up appears. Under General configuration, type the name of the bucket in the Bucket name field (here, the bucket name is testing-group1), and retain the other default settings. 
9. Retain default settings for all other sections, scroll down and click on Create bucket. 
10. The new bucket is created.
11. Select the testing-group1 S3 bucket. 
12. The Amazon S3 > testing-group1 page appears. Click on the Permissions tab. 
13. By default, the Block all public access tab is selected; click on Edit. 
14. Uncheck Block all public access and click on Save changes. 
15. The confirmation dialog appears. Type confirm and click on Confirm. 
16. The Successfully edited Block Public Access settings for this bucket message appears. 
17. Next, scroll down to Access control List under the Permissions tab and click on Edit. 
18. In the Edit access control list (ACL) window, we will set all permissions to our ACL on our AWS account, under the Bucket owner section ensure that all the permissions are checked under Objects and Bucket ACL. 
19. Scroll down and click on Save changes to apply the permissions on the AWS account. 
20. Public access settings have been updated successfully. 
21. We have created a bucket policy with the name testing-group1. We need the ARN of the bucket policy. Right-click on Amazon S3 in the left corner and click on Open link in new tab. 
22. Check the bucket for which you want to know the ARN number (here, testing-group1). The details of testing-group1 appear. Click on Copy 
23. Open Notepad and paste the copied ARN into it. 
24. Switch to the browser and close the second browser tab. You will return to the first browser tab.25. Scroll down to Bucket Policy under the Permissions tab and click on Edit and click on Policy generator link. A new tab of the browser opens switch to a new tab. 
26. The AWS Policy Generator page appears, as shown in the screenshot below. Set Select Type of Policy to S3 Bucket Policy. Set Effect to Allow. In the Principal field, let us specify a wildcard (“*”) to allow all principals for now. Set AWS Service to Amazon S3. 
27. Switch to Notepad and copy the ARN that we have pasted. 
28. Go to the browser and check the All Actions checkbox, paste the copied ARN value in the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) field, and click on Add Statement. 
29. Once the statement is added, click on Generate Policy in the Step 3: Generate Policy section. 
30. The Policy JSON Document pop-up appears, along with the generated JSON code. Copy the code as shown in the screenshot below and click on Close. 
31. Switch to the first tab of the web browser S3 Management Console to configure Bucket Policy. Paste the copied JSON code from the Bucket policy editor, scroll down and click on Save changes. 
32. Now the bucket has public access. 
33. As described above, the security professional can assign permissions to S3 using bucket policy.
34. Log out from the AWS platform and close all open windows.
35. Turn off Admin Machine-1 and PfSense Firewall virtual machines.
